api/config/applications/config_request.proto:28:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.host: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:29:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.port: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:30:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.metrics_port: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:35:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Log.format: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:36:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Log.level: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:40:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.database: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/applications/config_request.proto:41:33:field chef.automate.domain.applications.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.user: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:34:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.host: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:35:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.port: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:36:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.debug: unknown type google.protobuf.BoolValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:37:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.external_fqdn: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:38:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.a1_data_collector_token: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:42:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Oidc.client_id: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:43:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Oidc.client_secret: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:44:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Oidc.redirect_url: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:48:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Http1.host: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:49:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Http1.port: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:54:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.database: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:55:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.user: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:56:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.max_connections: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:60:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Logger.format: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authn/config_request.proto:61:33:field chef.automate.domain.authn.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Logger.level: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:30:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.host: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:31:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.port: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:32:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Service.project_limit: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:36:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Logger.format: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:37:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Logger.level: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:42:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.database: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:43:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.user: unknown type google.protobuf.StringValue
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:44:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.max_connections: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/config/authz/config_request.proto:45:33:field chef.automate.domain.authz.ConfigRequest.V1.System.Storage.max_idle_connections: unknown type google.protobuf.Int32Value
api/external/applications/applications.proto:609:3:field chef.automate.api.applications.PeriodicMandatoryJobConfig.running: unknown type google.protobuf.BoolValue
